And please welcome
Cocoa Fire Frameworks Engineer,
Douglas Davidson.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Thank you all for coming.
My name is Douglas Davidson.
I'm here to talk to you
about the Cocoa Text system.
The text system, in some senses,
is at the heart of Cocoa.
Almost everything in the app kit makes
use of text in one way or another and
generally uses the text system to do so.
The Cocoa text system is very
powerful and very flexible.
It has lots of features,
and there are quite a few
new features for Tiger.
So what I'd like to do today is,
first of all, go over briefly what we
have that's new for Tiger.
And then I'm going to dive into some
of the inner workings of the text
system so that by the end of the talk,
I can really give you a
detailed description of some
of the most significant new
features and how they work.
So what do we have that's new for Tiger?
Those of you who were here last
year may remember I talked about,
among other things,
our support for Word documents,
and that was pretty well received.
But
Some people would ask me why we didn't
really handle tables in Word documents,
and I had to tell them the
Cocoa Text system doesn't support tables.
So, when I got my task list for Tiger,
you can guess what the
first thing on it was.
Support tables in the Cocoa Text system.
So, I'm glad to say that for Tiger,
the Cocoa Text system
will support tables.
We thought about this a bit though,
and we realized that while
tables are important for RTF and
Word documents and so forth,
what they're really critical for is HTML.
So for Tiger,
we've also put a lot of effort into our
HTML support using that table support.
And in addition, entirely new for Tiger,
the Cocoa Text system
will now export HTML.
So let me talk about this.
Now, I've been speaking of this as
text table support for short,
because everyone understands that.
But what we really have here is
something that's a lot more general.
What we have is a flexible,
extensible mechanism for sizing and
positioning text blocks of all sorts,
the first application of which is to
the representation of tables from RTF or
Word documents or HTML or HTML and CSS.
Now, when I get to the end of the talk,
I'm going to be describing how
this works in great detail.
I just want to say that it is a very
general mechanism of text blocks,
and our intent is to use it for all sorts
of complex layout we might encounter.
For HTML import,
you may recall that in Panther,
we have two different
kinds of HTML import.
There is an older style that has some
support for sophisticated layout,
but that is rather out of
date and limited in the kinds
of HTML that it can parse.
And then there's a second kind,
new for Panther,
that used WebKit for parsing and
so could handle arbitrary HTML,
but was rather limited
in its layout support.
So for Tiger, all of that is gone.
We have a completely new
HTML import mechanism.
It uses WebKit for parsing,
so it can handle any
HTML you're likely to find.
And it uses the new text
block and text table mechanism
for complex layout support.
For HTML export,
whenever you talk about generating HTML,
the question always comes up,
"What kind of HTML is it that
you're going to generate?" So when
we were planning this feature,
we took a little informal survey
of some of the groups at Apple that
we thought might want to use it.
And the results were unanimous.
Every group wanted a
different kind of HTML.
So we decided we'd just
have to satisfy all of them.
And what we have is a mechanism
that gives you control over this.
It allows you to specify exactly
which HTML tags should be generated.
This gives you a lot of control.
You can generate HTML.
You can generate XHTML,
strict or transitional.
Of course, it's automatically going to
be valid and well-formed.
You can use CSS in a variety of ways,
or you can use no CSS.
You could generate a complete
HTML document or just a fragment
and all sorts of other options.
Take a look at the release notes.
I think you're going to like it.
Now, we're only about halfway through
the Tiger development cycle,
so these things are not
finished by any means,
but if we'll go over to the demo machine,
I'll give you a brief look at some
of the things that are working.
So,
I have a little demo application here,
so let me just type into it.
Thank you, Doug.
So, I'm going to go ahead and save this.
Maybe make this bold.
And let me go and save it.
And I have several -- I've added
several options here for saving this.
I could save it as rich text or HTML,
Word format.
We've also added support for
saving this Word's XML format,
WordML.
Let me save it as HTML.
Let me choose to save it
as HTML 4.01 transitional.
For CSS, I'm going to choose to use
CSS inline for the encoding.
Well, let me leave it as UTF-8 because,
you know, that's the right thing to do.
And let me give it a
name and save it out.
Let's see what kind
of thing we generated.
Open it to show the source.
And we have an HTML document.
Let me bring up,
I have a little Excel spreadsheet here.
Select it, copy, paste it in here,
and I get a real table.
Let me just select that and bump up the
size a little so you can see it better.
Let me make it bold.
Well, that's working pretty well so far.
Let me try something a little harder.
So in Safari, I brought up a possibly
recognizable website.
Let's just take a look
at the source for that.
This thing usually has about 50
tables nested four or five deep.
So let me take this and save it.
I'll save it using WebKit's
new Web Archive format,
which of course we now support.
And then let me go back and
see if I can open that up.
[Transcript missing]
"Select it all, maybe make it bold,
and then save it back out.
Yes, override it."
And so here it is.
Let me see if I can open
it back up in Safari.
And there it is.
I can see a few glitches
that I'll have to work on,
but recognizably the same website,
only all bold.
So, let me emphasize that this is
an import and export mechanism.
The HTML that we're producing is rather
different from the HTML that went in.
You'll notice, for one thing,
it's valid and well-formed
and nicely formatted,
which the original certainly wasn't.
So while I'm here, there's one more thing
I wanted to show you.
will be joining us in a few minutes.
Maybe I want to find
all of the tigers in it.
So I could just find the tigers, but
Now we have the possibility
to select all of them as a
multiple discontinuous selection.
Maybe make them a little bigger.
Make it bold, italic, underline,
and so forth.
Okay, let's go back to the slides and
I can talk a little about that.
Multiple selection, how does this work?
Well, there are a variety of methods
in NSTextView that act upon
or take a selected range.
So now for Tiger,
all those will have a counterpart
that works on selected ranges,
which is going to be an
array of range values.
The precise details you'll
find in the release notes as
to exactly what they take.
What about compatibility?
Any method that isn't multiple
selection savvy will still continue to
work just fine on the selected range,
which will just be the first
selected sub-range if there
is a multiple selection.
And this turns out to be
a pretty good default.
Works just fine in most cases.
In fact, there are still some methods
in the C that you have.
There are still some methods in the
app kit that haven't been updated.
And they continue to work
just fine operating on the
first selected sub-range.
So what else is new for Tiger?
Well, now that we're reading and
writing so many different
formats for import and export,
we've stopped adding a new
method for each format.
Instead,
we provided a set of generic methods that
take the document type as a parameter,
an option, or attribute.
[Transcript missing]
And some new document attributes
specifically for HTML export,
including those that provide the
control that I mentioned over the
kind of HTML that's being generated,
the tags and the encoding.
And finally, we have a new document
option for HTML import,
the Text Size Multiplier.
This corresponds to the
little buttons in Safari that,
say,
make the text size larger or smaller.
What else do we have?
Text lists.
I'm going to be talking more
about text lists later on.
Let me say that our intent is that the
text list feature should be used to
enable NS TextView to automatically
generate the markers for text lists,
that is, the numbers of the bullets.
That is not implemented
in the seed that you have.
What we have currently is that we
are using this for designating lists
in HTML import and HTML export.
We have some additions
to NS paragraph style.
First of all,
this is where the text blocks and tables
and text lists are attached to the text,
as I'll be talking about later on.
We also have the hyphenation factor.
Previously, this was set up only
globally per layout manager.
Now, we actually allow you to set it
individually on an individual paragraph.
We have another factor now,
the tightening factor for truncation.
If you request truncation with ellipses,
we will first try to tighten up the
text before truncating it with ellipses,
and this controls how much
we will try to do that.
And also, just for support of HTML,
we have a header level on Paragraphs
that allows us to distinguish
the text that is an HTML header
from ordinary paragraph text.
String Drawing We have some
new methods for string drawing.
They are much like the old ones,
but they have additional options.
One common request is to be
able to do string drawing with
the origin at the baseline.
That is now the default
with these new methods.
We also have the option of
measuring using either the
typographic bounds as usual or the
actual image bounds of the glyphs.
Previously,
the primary method for specifying
a font has been by name,
by the PostScript name.
For Tiger,
we are promoting NSFontDescriptor as the
standard means for specifying a font.
It has a lot more capabilities.
It can specify by name, by size,
by traits,
by the stylistic type of the font.
It can even group together multiple
fonts to serve as a cascade.
If you went to the font
talk earlier this week,
there was a considerable
discussion about NSFontDescriptor.
There have been some
changes to NS-Typesetter.
We're deprecating now NS-Simple
Horizontal Typesetter,
although it will still be there
for backward compatibility.
We have taken a lot of the
functionality from NS-ATS Typesetter
that wasn't really ATS-specific
and moved it up into NS-Typesetter.
This makes it easier to create a
whole new custom typesetting engine
and hook it up into the text system.
In addition,
we've added one new method here
for the typesetter when it wishes
to obtain a rectangle for a line.
I won't read out the method name.
We're not trying here to compete
for the longest method name.
I think Bitmap Binge
Wrap has that all sewn up.
But actually, all of these parameters are
really necessary and useful,
as we will see when we
come to the table layout.
And finally,
some more miscellaneous additions.
We have a couple of new responder methods
that are implemented in NSTextView.
One to insert a line break, that is,
a line break as opposed
to a paragraph break.
And one to insert a container break,
usually a page break.
We have a new delegate
method in NSTextView.
It allows the delegate to control
any changes to the typing attributes.
This is in addition to
our previous notification.
NSLayoutManager now has a getter
and setter for its glyph generator.
There are a number of new
convenience methods for manipulating
the base writing direction for
right-to-left and left-to-right text
on attributed strings in TextView.
And finally,
we have a number of new panels that are
not yet implemented in the new seed,
but are planned for inspecting
and modifying links,
lists, and tables in text,
and they have methods for
bringing them forward.
So, we've seen what's new.
Now I'm going to move into
the heart of the talk.
My aim is, by the end of the talk,
I can discuss in detail exactly how the
new block and table mechanism works.
But in order to get there,
first I'm going to talk,
I'm going to review a bit about how the
layout process works in the text system.
And then I'm going to discuss some of the
existing classes that are most relevant
and analogous to the new mechanism.
Fortunately,
these are classes that I haven't really
discussed in detail in previous years,
NSTextContainer and NSTextAttachment.
will review the NS Text List class,
and then I'll get to the
text blocks and tables.
So, to review, let's talk about the major
players in the text system.
At the model level,
the main class is NSTextStorage,
which stores the text of the document.
Direct subclass of
NSMutableAttributedString,
so it holds the characters
and their attributes.
Then we have the classes that typically
serve as values for attributes,
and as font for fonts,
and as paragraph style for
paragraph-level attributes,
and as text attachment
for attached files.
And there's NSTextContainer,
which models the geometry of a region
within which text is to be laid out,
typically a page.
At the controller level,
the central class of the text system,
NSLayoutManager,
that manages the whole process and
calls on a couple of other classes,
NSLiftGenerator and NSTypeSetter,
to do some work for it.
And at the view level,
there's a visible face of the
text system and its text view.
Now, the job of the text system really is
to go from the characters and their
attributes in the text storage to
the bits that you see on the screen.
And to do this, to make this happen,
there are four basic
processes that occur.
First of all, attribute fixing.
This is where the text storage
does this and makes sure that
the attributes are consistent.
That is,
that the fonts can actually represent
the characters to which they're attached.
And the paragraph level attributes
actually apply to whole paragraphs.
Then comes glyph generation.
This is controlled by the Layout Manager.
The Layout Manager calls on
the glyph generator to do this.
This is where the characters
and their fonts are converted
into a sequence of glyphs.
Then comes layout,
again controlled by the Layout Manager,
and calls upon the typesetter to do it.
The typesetter takes these
glyphs and assembles them into
lines positioned on the page.
And then comes Display, again,
done by the Layout Manager.
It takes these glyphs
and their positions,
and it sends them on down to
Quartz to be rendered on a screen.
We have a little diagram
of how this occurs.
On the one side,
we have the glyphs that are
generated by the glyph generator.
And as they are assembled into lines
by the typesetter within the geometry
that's determined by the text container,
they are then displayed in the text view,
which sits in the window.
I want to focus particularly on
layout because that's the most
important process in the new
text block and table mechanism.
And the way that this occurs in
detail is that the layout manager
decides that a particular range
of lists needs to be laid out.
Then it calls on the typesetter
and asks it to lay them out.
The typesetter then
contacts the text container.
Remember, the text container models the
geometry of the region within
which the text is being laid out.
So the typesetter calls on the text
container to ask it about that geometry,
to determine the rectangles for
the lines of text on the page.
Then the typesetter takes its glyphs and
it fills up these lines with the glyphs.
It figures out exactly where each
glyph should go in each line.
And then the typesetter calls back
to the layout manager to tell the
layout manager what it has done,
where each line sits on the page,
which glyphs go in it,
and exactly where they go in each line.
And the layout manager stores
this information because it will
need it later on for display and
interaction and all other purposes.
So let me talk a little bit
more about NSTextContainer.
It models the geometry of the region
within which text is to be laid out,
typically a page,
although it could be other things.
The stock NSTextContainer object
that you'll get from the app kit
represents just a simple rectangle.
You can create a custom NS Text Container
subclass that can represent
essentially an arbitrary region.
It will still have a rectangle
that is this bounding rectangle,
but within that, it gets to control where
the text will be laid out.
And the way that works is that,
as I said, the typesetter,
when it's laying out,
calls on the text container,
and it asks the text container,
it proposes a rectangle for a line,
and the text container
gets to modify that,
and return whatever rectangle
for the line it likes.
Here's a little diagram of that,
showing a possible custom text
container with some of the rectangles
for the lines that it might
have returned to the typesetter.
That's a conceptual overview.
Let's go back over to the
demo machine and see if I can
show it to you in action.
So let me bring up -- let's see
this and start it and run it.
This is just some text,
but I have set a custom text
container here on this text view.
And this text container has a parameter,
and as I modify the parameter,
the region within which the
text is laid out will change.
So it will go one way or the other.
Let me just select it all so you can see
what the actual line rects look like.
So I modify that.
Let's take a look at the code.
There's really only one main method
that has to be implemented here.
This class has some parameters,
but they just control what
happens in this method.
The typesetter is going to
propose a line fragment rectangle,
and then we are going
to get to modify it.
And in this case,
what we do is we trim it based
on this sinusoidal curve that is
the shape of this text container.
So we figure out where
we are on our sine wave,
and in one case,
we're going to trim it on the left side.
And the other case,
we just trim it on the right side,
and then we just return
our modified rectangle.
And that's all there is to it.
There is one more little detail.
We do have to implement this method to
notify the Layout Manager that we are not
just a simple rectangular text container,
so that it can turn off
certain optimizations.
And that is all that it takes, really,
to implement a custom text container.
Let's go back to the slides.
We talk about another
class for text attachments.
In TextEdit,
you may have dragged in an image
or some other file into the text,
and it gets attached to the
text at a specific location,
and it's represented by an image or some
icon that's drawn inline in the text.
And the class,
the way that this appears in the text
storage is as a special character,
the attachment character,
with a special attribute,
the attachment attribute.
And the value of the attribute is an
instance of the class NSTextAttachment.
NSTextAttachment does two things.
First of all,
it represents the contents of the
attached file as an NSFileWrapper.
And second, it has to provide some sort
of visual representation to
be drawn inline in the text.
And to do that drawing, it uses a cell,
an NSTextAttachment cell, to be specific.
Now, by default, if you're dragging
something into TextEdit,
the NSTextAttachment will automatically
generate an appropriate cell and
image or other representation,
depending on the contents of the file.
But as developers,
you don't have to let it do that.
You can assign your text attachment
a custom text attachment cell,
either one of a standard class with
perhaps a custom image attached to it.
If you were at the tips and
tricks talk the other day,
I gave an example of that.
Or you can give it an instance of a
custom subclass of NSTextAttachment cell.
With a custom subclass
of NSTextAttachment cell,
you can do essentially arbitrary
drawing inline in the text.
How does this work?
Well, during glyph generation,
the glyph generator will notice,
it'll come across the attachment and
not try to generate a glyph because
there's no glyph to represent it.
It just puts in a null glyph as a
placeholder for it in the glyph stream.
Then at layout time,
a typesetter will come across it.
Notice that there is an attachment there.
What it needs to know about it
is what space that attachment
will take up in the text so that
it can position it in the line.
So it actually calls to
the text attachment cell,
passing it as arguments,
the position in the text and
line fragment and so forth,
where it is being laid out.
And the text attachment cell gets
to decide how big it should be there
and return that to the typesetter.
And the typesetter then
reserves that space for it.
during layout.
Then when it comes along to display time,
the Layout Manager, as I said,
the Layout Manager handles the display.
The Layout Manager notices that
it's not an ordinary glyph,
it's a text attachment,
and it calls on the text attachment
cell to do the drawing in the
space that was reserved for it.
So that a custom text attachment cell
can do more or less arbitrary drawing in
an arbitrary space inline in the text.
But there's also one more thing,
and that is that the text view will
notice where there is a text attachment,
and it will give the text attachment
cell the opportunity to handle
mouse clicks in that region.
So you can even do some interaction
with a custom text attachment cell.
If we go back to the demo machine,
I want to give a tiny little demo.
So this is the same application,
but if I click on this box,
I will put in some
custom text attachments.
And these are just here.
This example is just a horizontal line.
I put a few of them in here.
[Transcript missing]
That's pretty short.
As I said, the methods that you
have to implement are,
first of all,
when the typesetter asks the text
detachment cell how big it is,
here we're returning a rectangle whose
size and position is just determined
by the size of the line fragment
within which we're being laid out,
just a third of it.
And then when it comes time to draw,
we get a chance to do our own drawing,
called upon by the layout manager.
And here I'm just doing
something very simple,
setting black and filling that rect.
[Transcript missing]
We're gonna talk about a new class,
NSTextList.
The basic principle of our
text list support is that
all of the text of the list,
including the marker,
the bullet or numbering,
will appear in the text as usual.
The NSTextList object itself will
appear as an attribute on the text,
and it will do primarily two things.
First of all,
it will specify which portions of the
text lie within which part of the list,
of which list,
and it will also determine what the
formatting of the markers will be.
And as I said,
our intent is that this should
be used by NS TextView for
automatic generation of markers,
be they bullets or
numbers or what have you,
that is not yet implemented in your seed.
Currently,
we use this for specifying lists
for HTML import and HTML export.
Now, how does this actually
appear in the text?
The text list,
the NSTextList object is intended
to be a paragraph-level attribute,
so it appears as part
of NSParagraphStyle.
But
Lists can be nested.
So a given region of text
may not just be in one list,
it may be in multiple lists.
So NSParagraphStyle doesn't
have just one NSTextList,
it has an array of NSTextLists listed in
order from outermost to the innermost.
That's how we specify which portion
of the text lies in which lists.
And we have a couple of convenience
methods now in NSIntributedString
for determining the entire range of
a particular list or the location
in a list of a particular item.
And the text list,
NSTextList object itself,
has some methods for specifying
the format of its markers.
I'm not going to describe that now.
You can look at the release notes.
It's fairly standard.
We support a number of basic
list formatting options.
with possibly more to come in the future.
Now here I have a little
diagram to show how this works.
Here we have two nested lists,
an outer list and an inner list.
Some of the text is
only in the outer list.
In that case, the text lists array just
has the outer list in it.
And some of the text is in both lists,
the outer and the inner.
And for those, the text lists array would
have the outer list first,
then the inner list.
So now we have all the ingredients
to understand how our text block
and text table support works.
I've said that NSTextContainer
represents the geometry within
which the text is laid out,
and it's quite general and
flexible at doing that.
But it's essentially static.
It doesn't depend on the text
that's being laid out in it.
The point of the new
mechanism and the new class,
NSTextBlock, is to allow the text,
attributes on the text,
to affect how it is laid out.
So,
an NSText block is going to be attached
to the text much like an NSText list is,
as an attribute,
and it's going to participate
in the layout process somewhat
as an NSText attachment does.
The contents,
the text in the text blocks,
will all appear in the text as normal,
and it will all be laid out
perfectly normally and laid out and
displayed with one little change,
and that is that the text block is
allowed to affect the line rectangles
within which the text is being laid out.
So, the way that the text blocks appear
in the text is very similar to
that in which text lists appear,
because blocks, again, are going to be
paragraph-level attributes,
so they appear on the paragraph style,
and they, too, can be nested.
So, a given section of text can
be in more than one block.
And so, in its paragraph style,
in addition to the text lists array,
it also has an array of text blocks,
again,
in order from outermost to innermost.
And again,
we have a couple of convenience
methods on this attributed string
for determining the entire range
of a particular block or table.
I'll get to tables in a minute.
So how is this treated
when it comes to layout?
During the layout process,
we are going to define two
rectangles for a given text block.
The first one is the layout rectangle.
That is the rectangle within
which the text of the block is
actually going to be laid out.
And then there is the bounds rectangle,
which is a rectangle around
the text of the block that
also includes space for margin,
borders, padding,
any additional region around
the text that is not available
for the layout of other text.
The layout rect for a block has
to be determined just as layout
for the block is starting,
immediately before the block is laid out.
And the way this happens is that
the typesetter notices that it's
starting to lay out a block of text,
and it calls on its text block and
asks it what its layout rect should be.
It passes in the location at
which it's starting to lay out
text and a containing rectangle,
which for the outermost rectangle,
would be a bounding rect
for the text container,
but for inner blocks,
would be the rect of the
immediately enclosing block.
And then the bounds rect has
to be determined at the end of
layout for the block immediately,
as soon as the block has
finished being laid out,
because the bounds rect generally
is affected by the length
of the text in the block.
And again,
the typesetter notices that it's
finished laying out a block,
and calls on the block,
and asks it for its bounds rect.
And the NSText block gets to
determine that rect and pass
it back to the typesetter.
And the typesetter then, as usual,
calls out to the layout manager and tells
the layout manager what it has found out,
stores these two rects for the
block in the layout manager,
and the layout manager keeps that
information and maintains it.
Here's a little diagram.
So when this block is being laid out,
it's laid out in this layout rectangle,
which is typically a long
rectangle when we're allowing the
block to be of arbitrary height.
Then after the block has been laid out,
then the bounds rectangle is
sort of wrapped around the text
with any extra space needed for,
say, margins, border, padding,
whatever the block wants to put there.
Then when it comes time for display,
again,
the Layout Manager manages the display.
The Layout Manager actually
has two methods for display,
one to draw background and
one to draw the glyphs.
So when its method is called
for drawing background,
There's one addition,
and that is that it notices if
there are text blocks to be drawn,
and it calls upon those text
blocks in order from outermost
to innermost and asks them to
do any drawing they need to do.
And in that case,
they can draw backgrounds,
they can draw borders,
any sort of decoration that they need.
And then the usual glyph
background is drawn on top of that.
And then when the Layout Manager's
method for drawing glyphs is called,
the glyphs are simply drawn on
top of all this background and
show up in the right places.
Now, all that is a general
text block mechanism.
There is also a specific
version for text tables.
And we have a subclass of
NSTextBlock called NSTextTableBlock.
NSTextTableBlock represents a block that
appears as a single cell within a table.
The distinguishing feature of the
table layout is that the different
cells in the table have to coordinate
their layout with each other.
So there is another object, NSTextTable,
that represents the table as a whole.
And each text table block, each cell,
has a reference to the table as a whole.
And when it comes time
for layout or for display,
as I've said,
the layout manager calls upon the block,
in this case, the NSTextTableBlock.
And NSTextTableBlock is the block
that represents the table as a whole.
And when NSTextTableBlock as a
subclass does something special,
it passes those requests
on to its NSTextTable,
which coordinates them with all
the other cells of the table and
returns the appropriate results
or does the appropriate display.
Now, all this is the general mechanism.
The standard text block and text
tables and text table block classes
in the kit have a number of parameters
that determine how they actually
do size and position themselves.
These are things like margin, border,
and padding widths on each side,
content width, and so forth.
They can be specified either as
an absolute point value or as a
percentage of the enclosing block.
And text blocks will draw a
background color if specified.
They can also specify border colors,
if you like,
a separate one for each side.
You can look at the details.
They're all in the release notes.
It should be not terribly surprising.
What I want to emphasize here
is that these do not limit you.
The mechanism is very general.
If you have a custom
subclass of an as-text block,
you can do any sort of sizing and
positioning and decoration that you like.
So let's go back to the demo machine and
I'll give a little demonstration of this.
Now, I said that the custom,
that the standard text block class in
the kit will do a background color.
It doesn't, at least not yet, support,
for example, background images.
But there's nothing to prevent
you from writing your own text
block class that will do that.
And I've written this tiny little sample
here that does a background image.
And in addition,
it does some custom sizing.
It sizes the block to
the size of the image.
Now, let me turn that on.
Notice that here is the
text up here in the block.
And I can select it, make it bigger,
make it bigger if we like, and so forth.
[Transcript missing]
The methods that we need
to implement for this are,
first of all,
when we start the layout of the block,
we need to get the layout rect.
And the typesetter will call
upon this custom subclass and
ask it for the layout rect.
And here all that I'm doing is
determining the layout rect based
upon -- determining its width
based upon the size of the image.
And to be nice,
I've made it centered horizontally
in the containing rect,
so there's a little bit
of calculation here.
But it's pretty straightforward.
Then when we're called upon
to generate the bounds rect --
What I'm, although I'm doing here,
is trying to make the bounce
rect equal to the size,
defined by the size of the image.
Of course,
it might be that our container is
not quite big enough for the image,
or it might be that it's bigger
and we need to center it.
So there's a little bit of
calculation here to determine
the bounce rect in those cases,
and we return that.
And then when it comes time to draw,
All that we're going to do is
just draw this background image.
But again, the rect might be smaller
than we actually wanted,
or it might be bigger
than we actually wanted.
So we're going to adjust for that
trim or center one way or the other.
And then so there's a little
more calculation here.
But again, quite straightforward.
And then we just draw
the image in the rect.
That is what is necessary to make
a custom subclass of NS Text Block.
Now let's go back to the slides.
and finish up.
That's what I have to
present to you today.
If you want to see more,
the first place to go
is the release notes,
which has detailed
descriptions of all this.
For the pre-Tiger features,
there is extensive documentation.
Actually some of the nice diagrams
I showed you here were taken
directly from that documentation,
and the samples that I showed
you here should be available
for download on the ADC website,
the disk image for this session.
and contact person,
Matthew Formica and formica@apple.com.